# Hangman
  O  
\ | /  
 / \  


## Members
- Kenneth Chin  
- Minuk Kim  
- Derek Lao  

## Description of Project  
We are making our attempt of creating the popular child's game hangman.
The objective of the game is to guess a word that someone else chooses. The
guessers guess a letter each turn. If the letter is part of the word, the
position the letter is in the word is shown, else a part of a drawing of a stick
figure is drawn (representative of certain number of lives). 
Other aspects of graphics will be implemented to look more interactive and
If the guesser can get the word before the drawing is done, they win.

But here's the twist:
Players do not get to see which letters have been guessed, and whether the guessed letters are correct/incorrect, until right before their turn. They will have 3 seconds to view it. Then they will not be able to see it, and will have 5 seconds to guess a letter or a word. If they guess wrong, they will get a strike (so an addition of a body part). 

## Description of User Interface:  
- There will be an option to play single player or two player (local game).
- The computer generates a random word / phrase and the players will take turns guessing.  
- Using the terminal, the player is given 6 lives, represented by a picture.


## Technical Design:
- Working with files: We plan on storing the words and phrases generated by the computer in a txt file.
- Semaphores: When the two-player option is chosen, we will use semaphores to only allow one player at a time to view the guessed letters and their correct/incorrect status, for a limited time. We will also use semaphores to allow one player at a time to access the guessing box.
- Shared memory: Multiple players can access the guessing box, and multiple players can view the guessed letters and their correct/incorrect status.
- Signals: To relay the guess between two guesses.
- Processes: We need to fork new processes to allow the player to have multiple turns.
- File access/use: File for a word bank.

## Project Breakdown:
#### Part 1:
- Finish implementing the entering of letters into a space displayed on the terminal, using user input from the keyboard.

- Implement a checking method for the system to check entered letter against a letter.

- Implement checking method for system to check entered letter against all the letters in the word.

- Implement a method to remove all the letters from the word that have been matched, leaving the remainder of letters that have not been matched yet still in the data structure containing all the letters.

#### Part 2:

- Have a counter for number of wrong letters a user has guessed.

- Draw victim progressively based on the number of wrong letters.

#### Part 3:

- Implement timer for turns, and time to view the guessed letters and their correct/incorrect status.

## Timeline:
January 6 - Get hangman versus the computer down. (Basic Functions)  Part 1

January 8 - Get hangman versus the computer down. (Basic Functions) Part 2

January 10 - Add networking portion (2 player mode)

January 13 - Implement any extra features / check for errors/mistakes

January 16/17 - Submit!

## Extra features/possible changes:

- Add different difficulty settings to adjust the time each player has for a turn, and time allowed to view guessed letters
- Add option for more than one player
- Give the player the option to guess a letter or a word, if they are to guess the word, give them more time to guess it
- Split betwee co-op mode and deathmatch mode. In co-op mode, they work together to guess. In deathmatch mode, they compete to guess the word, but still take turns. In death match mode, we can do it so that each player is playing an independent 1-player hangman. Or each player is working together to guess the same word, but they have their own "lives" (they each have their own bodies for how many wrong letters each guesses). Or they work together to guess the word and the person with the most distinct correct letters guessed wins. Or the person who guessed the most total correct letters wins. Or the person who guessed the fewest wrong letters wins (the person with the most "lives" or least complete hanging person)
- Make a version of the hangman such that if there is multiple of the same letter, then that letter must be guessed the multiple times in order to get the whole word. This may be a more fair way to implement the deathmatch version where the players guess for the same word, and then the winner is the one who has the most total correct guessed letters.
